# FP_education_success
This is my Python final project analyzing student education and how that has lead to success.
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/adilshamim8/education-and-career-success

Statistical Analysis: This was a very interesting dataset to do an analysis on. With this analysis I was surprised with some of the results, and had anticipated others. I started with head(), info(), and discribe() to get a better look at my data and what was in it as well as overall discriptive statistics. Questions started to form in my head so I cleaned the data so I could start usins manipulation to get answers to these quesitons. Luckly this dataset was very clean, the only thing I did to further clean the data was to remove the Entrepreneurship column because the responses were all false so it wasn't neccessary to keep this column. I noticed that each time I had a question another would pop in my head leading me to filter, group, use descriptive statistics, correlation, etc. One of my questions was...'Does Networking and the amount of Job Offers have any correlation to eachother?' I ran a correlation function and the result was 0.956774 which is a strongly correlated number. I also created a scatterplot to help visualize this correlation and I color coded  male and females to see if that also ahd any difference. I saw that it was a strong positive correlation and females tended to have a lower networking score which we learn also mean't less job offers, with a few exceptions. Another question that I asked was...'Which field of study has the highest and lowest starting incomes?' I used groupby() and mean() to find out that Computer science was the highest starting salary and Arts being the lowest. Using filtering I noticed that this data was gathered from students with good GPA's and career goals but those with the lower GPAs(<=3.4) tend to have lower starting salarys and are currently on entry level for there jobs. In conclusion I learned a lot from this dataset. I learned that your high school GPA and networking does matter, it leads to having better jobs and leaded to a higher income.
